linux/distros/arch.md, before:

# Arch Linux

Arch Linux is an independently developed, x86-64 general-purpose Linux distribution that strives to provide the latest stable versions of most software by following a rolling-release model. The default installation is a minimal base system, configured by the user to only add what is purposely required.

[Pacman](../pacman.md), a package manager written specifically for Arch Linux, is used to install, remove and update software packages.

Arch Linux uses a rolling release model, meaning there are no "major releases" of completely new versions of the system; a regular system update is all that is needed to obtain the latest Arch software; the installation images released every month by the Arch team are simply up-to-date snapshots of the main system components.

Arch Linux has comprehensive documentation, consisting of a community-run wiki known as the ArchWiki.

ArchWiki: https://wiki.archlinux.org/

Repository: https://gitlab.archlinux.org/

Website: https://archlinux.org/

Commit message:

Add useful links to arch distro

linux/distros/arch.md, after:

# Arch Linux

Arch Linux is an independently developed, x86-64 general-purpose Linux distribution that strives to provide the latest stable versions of most software by following a rolling-release model. The default installation is a minimal base system, configured by the user to only add what is purposely required.

[Pacman](../pacman.md), a package manager written specifically for Arch Linux, is used to install, remove and update software packages.

Arch Linux uses a rolling release model, meaning there are no "major releases" of completely new versions of the system; a regular system update is all that is needed to obtain the latest Arch software; the installation images released every month by the Arch team are simply up-to-date snapshots of the main system components.

Arch Linux has comprehensive documentation, consisting of a community-run wiki known as the ArchWiki.

- [Installation guide](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Installation_guide)
- [FAQ](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Frequently_asked_questions)
- [General recommendations](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/General_recommendations)
- [Arch compared to other distributions](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Arch_compared_to_other_distributions)
- [List of applications](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/List_of_applications)

ArchWiki: https://wiki.archlinux.org/

Repository: https://gitlab.archlinux.org/

Website: https://archlinux.org/
