networking/bind.md, before:

# BIND

**BIND** is a suite of software for interacting with the [Domain Name System (DNS)](dns.md). Its most prominent component, `named` (short for name daemon), performs both of the main DNS server roles, acting as an authoritative name server for DNS zones and as a recursive resolver in the network. It is the most widely used domain name server software, and is the de facto standard on Unix-like operating systems. Also contained in the suite are various administration tools such as `nsupdate` and `[dig](../security/dig.md)`, and a DNS resolver interface library.

The software was originally designed at the University of California, Berkeley (UCB) in the early 1980s. The name originates as an acronym of Berkeley Internet Name Domain, reflecting the application's use within UCB. The latest version is BIND 9, first released in 2000 and still actively maintained by the Internet Systems Consortium (ISC) with new releases issued several times a year.

BIND 9 is intended to be fully compliant with the IETF DNS standards and draft standards. Important features of BIND 9 include: TSIG, `nsupdate`, IPv6, RNDC (remote name daemon control), views, multiprocessor support, Response Rate Limiting (RRL), DNSSEC, and broad portability. RNDC enables remote configuration updates, using a shared secret to provide encryption for local and remote terminals during each session.

Project Homepage: https://www.isc.org/bind/

---
## Installation

ISC provides executables for Windows and packages for Ubuntu ([[ubuntu]]) and CentOS ([[centos]]) and Fedora ([[fedora]]) and Debian ([[debian]]) - BIND 9 ESV, Debian - BIND 9 Stable, Debian - BIND 9 Development version. Most operating systems also offer BIND 9 packages for their users. These may be built with a different set of defaults than the standard BIND 9 distribution, and some of them add a version number of their own that does not map exactly to the BIND 9 version.


### Ubuntu Linux

BIND9 is available in the Main repository. No additional repository needs to be enabled for BIND9.

```sh 
sudo apt install bind9
```


### Ubuntu Docker

As part of the [Long Term Supported OCI Images](https://ubuntu.com/security/docker-images), Canonical offers Bind9 as a hardened and maintained Docker Docker ([[docker]]).

```sh
docker run -d --name bind9-container -e TZ=UTC -p 30053:53 ubuntu/bind9:9.18-22.04_beta
```


---
## Configuration

BIND 9 uses a single configuration file called `named.conf`, which is typically located in either `/etc/bind`, `/etc/namedb` or `/usr/local/etc/namedb`.

The `named.conf` consists of `logging`, and `options` blocks, and `category`, `channel`, `directory`, `file` and `severity` statements.

### Named Config

```conf
options {
	...
};

zone "domain.tld" {
	type primary;
	file "domain.tld";
};
```

### Zone File

Depending on the functionality of the system, one or more `zone` files is required.

```conf
; base zone file for domain.tld
$TTL 2d    ; default TTL for zone

$ORIGIN domain.tld. ; base domain-name

; Start of Authority RR defining the key characteristics of the zone (domain)
@         IN      SOA   ns1.domain.tld. hostmaster.domain.tld. (
                                2022121200 ; serial number
                                12h        ; refresh
                                15m        ; update retry
                                3w         ; expiry
                                2h         ; minimum
                                )

; name server RR for the domain
           IN      NS      ns1.domain.tld.

; mail server RRs for the zone (domain)
        3w IN      MX  10  mail.domain.tld.

; domain hosts includes NS and MX records defined above
; plus any others required
; for instance a user query for the A RR of joe.domain.tld will
; return the IPv4 address 192.168.254.6 from this zone file
ns1        IN      A       192.168.254.2
mail       IN      A       192.168.254.4
joe        IN      A       192.168.254.6
www        IN      A       192.168.254.7

```

#### SOA (Start of Authority)

A start of authority record ([[soa-record]]) is a type of resource record in the Domain Name System (DNS) containing administrative information about the zone, especially regarding zone transfers. The SOA record format is specified in RFC 1035.

```conf
@         IN      SOA   ns1.domain.tld. hostmaster.domain.tld. (
                                2022121200 ; serial number
                                12h        ; refresh
                                15m        ; update retry
                                3w         ; expiry
                                2h         ; minimum
                                )
```

Commit message:

Add see also section to bind

networking/bind.md, after:

# BIND

**BIND** is a suite of software for interacting with the [Domain Name System (DNS)](dns.md). Its most prominent component, `named` (short for name daemon), performs both of the main DNS server roles, acting as an authoritative name server for DNS zones and as a recursive resolver in the network. It is the most widely used domain name server software, and is the de facto standard on Unix-like operating systems. Also contained in the suite are various administration tools such as `nsupdate` and `[dig](../security/dig.md)`, and a DNS resolver interface library.

The software was originally designed at the University of California, Berkeley (UCB) in the early 1980s. The name originates as an acronym of Berkeley Internet Name Domain, reflecting the application's use within UCB. The latest version is BIND 9, first released in 2000 and still actively maintained by the Internet Systems Consortium (ISC) with new releases issued several times a year.

BIND 9 is intended to be fully compliant with the IETF DNS standards and draft standards. Important features of BIND 9 include: TSIG, `nsupdate`, IPv6, RNDC (remote name daemon control), views, multiprocessor support, Response Rate Limiting (RRL), DNSSEC, and broad portability. RNDC enables remote configuration updates, using a shared secret to provide encryption for local and remote terminals during each session.

Project Homepage: https://www.isc.org/bind/

---
## Installation

ISC provides executables for Windows and packages for Ubuntu ([[ubuntu]]) and CentOS ([[centos]]) and Fedora ([[fedora]]) and Debian ([[debian]]) - BIND 9 ESV, Debian - BIND 9 Stable, Debian - BIND 9 Development version. Most operating systems also offer BIND 9 packages for their users. These may be built with a different set of defaults than the standard BIND 9 distribution, and some of them add a version number of their own that does not map exactly to the BIND 9 version.


### Ubuntu Linux

BIND 9 is available in the Main repository. No additional repository needs to be enabled for BIND 9.

```sh 
sudo apt install bind9
```


### Ubuntu Docker

As part of the [Long Term Supported OCI Images](https://ubuntu.com/security/docker-images), Canonical offers Bind9 as a hardened and maintained Docker Docker ([[docker]]).

```sh
docker run -d --name bind9-container -e TZ=UTC -p 30053:53 ubuntu/bind9:9.18-22.04_beta
```


---
## Configuration

BIND 9 uses a single configuration file called `named.conf`, which is typically located in either `/etc/bind`, `/etc/namedb` or `/usr/local/etc/namedb`.

The `named.conf` consists of `logging`, and `options` blocks, and `category`, `channel`, `directory`, `file` and `severity` statements.

### Named Config

```conf
options {
	...
};

zone "domain.tld" {
	type primary;
	file "domain.tld";
};
```

### Zone File

Depending on the functionality of the system, one or more `zone` files is required.

```conf
; base zone file for domain.tld
$TTL 2d    ; default TTL for zone

$ORIGIN domain.tld. ; base domain-name

; Start of Authority RR defining the key characteristics of the zone (domain)
@         IN      SOA   ns1.domain.tld. hostmaster.domain.tld. (
                                2022121200 ; serial number
                                12h        ; refresh
                                15m        ; update retry
                                3w         ; expiry
                                2h         ; minimum
                                )

; name server RR for the domain
           IN      NS      ns1.domain.tld.

; mail server RRs for the zone (domain)
        3w IN      MX  10  mail.domain.tld.

; domain hosts includes NS and MX records defined above
; plus any others required
; for instance a user query for the A RR of joe.domain.tld will
; return the IPv4 address 192.168.254.6 from this zone file
ns1        IN      A       192.168.254.2
mail       IN      A       192.168.254.4
joe        IN      A       192.168.254.6
www        IN      A       192.168.254.7

```

#### SOA (Start of Authority)

A start of authority record ([[soa-record]]) is a type of resource record in the Domain Name System (DNS) containing administrative information about the zone, especially regarding zone transfers. The SOA record format is specified in RFC 1035.

```conf
@         IN      SOA   ns1.domain.tld. hostmaster.domain.tld. (
                                2022121200 ; serial number
                                12h        ; refresh
                                15m        ; update retry
                                3w         ; expiry
                                2h         ; minimum
                                )
```

## See also

- [DNS](dns.md)
- [Dig utility](../security/dig.md)
- [DNS encryption](dns-encryption.md)
- [DNS over https](dns-over-https.md)
- [DNS over tls](dns-over-tls.md)
- [DNS record mailserver](dns-record-mailserver.md)
- [DNS record types](dns-record-types.md)
