www/0x0.st.md, before:

# 0x0.st

The following documentation of the website at `0x0.st` can be
retrieved with the command `curl https://0x0.st/`.

A convenience alias for uploading files to `0x0.st`:

```shell
alias upload='curl -F "file=@$(ls | fzf)" https://0x0.st'
```

## THE NULL POINTER

HTTP POST files here:

```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' https://0x0.st
```
You can also POST remote URLs:

```shell
    curl -F'url=http://example.com/image.jpg' https://0x0.st
```
If you don't want the resulting URL to be easy to guess:

```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' -Fsecret= https://0x0.st
    curl -F'url=http://example.com/image.jpg' -Fsecret= https://0x0.st
```

It is possible to append your own file name to the URL:
```
    https://0x0.st/aaa.jpg/image.jpeg
```

URL SHORTENING HAS BEEN DISABLED DUE TO FREQUENT ABUSE

File URLs are valid for at least 30 days and up to a year (see below).

Files can be set to expire sooner by adding an "expires" parameter (in hours)
```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' -Fexpires=24 https://0x0.st
```
OR by setting "expires" to a timestamp in epoch milliseconds
```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' -Fexpires=1681996320000 https://0x0.st
```

Expired files won't be removed immediately, but will be removed as part of
the next hourly purge.

Whenever a file that does not already exist or has expired is uploaded,
the HTTP response header includes an X-Token field. You can use this
to perform management operations on the file.

To delete the file immediately:
```shell
    curl -Ftoken=token_here -Fdelete= https://0x0.st/abc.txt
```
To change the expiration date (see above):
```shell
    curl -Ftoken=token_here -Fexpires=3 https://0x0.st/abc.txt
```

Maximum file size: `512.0 MiB`

Not allowed: `application/x-dosexec`, `application/x-executable`, `application/x-sharedlib`, `application/x-hdf5`, `application/java-archive`, `application/vnd.android.package-archive`, `application/x-rar`

## TERMS OF SERVICE

0x0.st is NOT a platform for:

* piracy
* pornography and gore
* extremist material of any kind
* malware / botnet C&C
* anything related to crypto currencies
* backups (yes, this includes your minecraft stuff, seriously people have been dumping terabytes of it here for years)
* CI build artifacts
* doxxing, database dumps containing personal information
* anything illegal under German law

Uploads found to be in violation of these rules will be removed,
and the originating IP address blocked from further uploads.

Note that Tor exit nodes are blocked by the firewall due to frequent rule violations.

## OPERATOR NOTES

If you run a server and like this site, clone it! Centralization is bad.
<a href="https://git.0x0.st/mia/0x0">https://git.0x0.st/mia/0x0</a>

You can also support it financially via Liberapay.
Hosting costs about 60 EUR a month.
<a href="https://liberapay.com/mia/donate"><img src="https://img.shields.io/liberapay/receives/mia.svg?logo=liberapay"></a> <a href="https://liberapay.com/mia"><img src="https://img.shields.io/liberapay/gives/mia.svg?logo=liberapay"></a>

If you wish to make just a small one-time donation, I’d prefer if you’d
get me (and maybe yourself) something on my <a href="https://bandcamp.com/mia-0/wishlist">Bandcamp wishlist</a>.

Fedi: <a rel="me" href="https://movsw.0x0.st/@mia">@mia@movsw.0x0.st</a>

## FILE RETENTION PERIOD

```
retention = min_age + (-max_age + min_age) * pow((file_size / max_size - 1), 3)
```

<pre>
days
 365 |  \
     |   \
     |    \
     |     \
     |      \
     |       \
     |        ..
     |          \
197.5| ----------..-------------------------------------------
     |             ..
     |               \
     |                ..
     |                  ...
     |                     ..
     |                       ...
     |                          ....
     |                              ......
  30 |                                    ....................
      0                       256.0                  512.0 MiB
</pre>

## ABUSE

If you would like to request permanent deletion, please contact mia via
IRC on Libera Chat, or send an email to `mia ‍＠‍ ‍0‍x‍0‍.‍s‍t` (do not copy and paste).

Please allow up to 24 hours for a response.

## See also

- [cURL](curl.md)
- [Internet status](status.plaintext.sh.md)
- [wttr](wttr.in.md)

Commit message:

Expand curl cheat sheet with Internet services examples

www/0x0.st.md, after:

# 0x0.st

The following documentation of the website at `0x0.st` can be
retrieved with the command `curl https://0x0.st/`.

A convenience alias for uploading files to `0x0.st`:

```shell
alias upload='curl -F "file=@$(ls | fzf)" https://0x0.st'
```

Similar services are offered by several other sites. For example:

```shell
curl --upload-file ./hello.txt https://transfer.sh/hello.txt
```
<pre>
https://transfer.sh/ayJ0YS/hello.txt
</pre>

## 0x0 DOCUMENTATION

HTTP POST files here:

```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' https://0x0.st
```
You can also POST remote URLs:

```shell
    curl -F'url=http://example.com/image.jpg' https://0x0.st
```
If you don't want the resulting URL to be easy to guess:

```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' -Fsecret= https://0x0.st
    curl -F'url=http://example.com/image.jpg' -Fsecret= https://0x0.st
```

It is possible to append your own file name to the URL:
```
    https://0x0.st/aaa.jpg/image.jpeg
```

URL SHORTENING HAS BEEN DISABLED DUE TO FREQUENT ABUSE

File URLs are valid for at least 30 days and up to a year (see below).

Files can be set to expire sooner by adding an "expires" parameter (in hours)
```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' -Fexpires=24 https://0x0.st
```
OR by setting "expires" to a timestamp in epoch milliseconds
```shell
    curl -F'file=@yourfile.png' -Fexpires=1681996320000 https://0x0.st
```

Expired files won't be removed immediately, but will be removed as part of
the next hourly purge.

Whenever a file that does not already exist or has expired is uploaded,
the HTTP response header includes an X-Token field. You can use this
to perform management operations on the file.

To delete the file immediately:
```shell
    curl -Ftoken=token_here -Fdelete= https://0x0.st/abc.txt
```
To change the expiration date (see above):
```shell
    curl -Ftoken=token_here -Fexpires=3 https://0x0.st/abc.txt
```

Maximum file size: `512.0 MiB`

Not allowed: `application/x-dosexec`, `application/x-executable`, `application/x-sharedlib`, `application/x-hdf5`, `application/java-archive`, `application/vnd.android.package-archive`, `application/x-rar`

## TERMS OF SERVICE

0x0.st is NOT a platform for:

* piracy
* pornography and gore
* extremist material of any kind
* malware / botnet C&C
* anything related to crypto currencies
* backups (yes, this includes your minecraft stuff, seriously people have been dumping terabytes of it here for years)
* CI build artifacts
* doxxing, database dumps containing personal information
* anything illegal under German law

Uploads found to be in violation of these rules will be removed,
and the originating IP address blocked from further uploads.

Note that Tor exit nodes are blocked by the firewall due to frequent rule violations.

## OPERATOR NOTES

If you run a server and like this site, clone it! Centralization is bad.
<a href="https://git.0x0.st/mia/0x0">https://git.0x0.st/mia/0x0</a>

You can also support it financially via Liberapay.
Hosting costs about 60 EUR a month.
<a href="https://liberapay.com/mia/donate"><img src="https://img.shields.io/liberapay/receives/mia.svg?logo=liberapay"></a> <a href="https://liberapay.com/mia"><img src="https://img.shields.io/liberapay/gives/mia.svg?logo=liberapay"></a>

If you wish to make just a small one-time donation, I’d prefer if you’d
get me (and maybe yourself) something on my <a href="https://bandcamp.com/mia-0/wishlist">Bandcamp wishlist</a>.

Fedi: <a rel="me" href="https://movsw.0x0.st/@mia">@mia@movsw.0x0.st</a>

## FILE RETENTION PERIOD

```
retention = min_age + (-max_age + min_age) * pow((file_size / max_size - 1), 3)
```

<pre>
days
 365 |  \
     |   \
     |    \
     |     \
     |      \
     |       \
     |        ..
     |          \
197.5| ----------..-------------------------------------------
     |             ..
     |               \
     |                ..
     |                  ...
     |                     ..
     |                       ...
     |                          ....
     |                              ......
  30 |                                    ....................
      0                       256.0                  512.0 MiB
</pre>

## ABUSE

If you would like to request permanent deletion, please contact mia via
IRC on Libera Chat, or send an email to `mia ‍＠‍ ‍0‍x‍0‍.‍s‍t` (do not copy and paste).

Please allow up to 24 hours for a response.

## See also

- [cURL](curl.md)
- [Internet status](status.plaintext.sh.md)
- [wttr](wttr.in.md)
