kasm/workspaces.md, before:

---
tags:
  - projects
  - kasm
  - workspace
categories:
  - kasm
  - linux
---

![Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/doctorfree/kasm-registry/logo.png)

# Record Technologies Kasm Workspace Images

The [Record Technologies Kasm repository](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry) contains several highly customized desktop and application Kasm Workspaces images. Administrators may leverage these images directly or use them as a starting point for their own custom images. Each of these images is based off one of the [**Workspaces Core Images**](https://github.com/kasmtech/workspaces-core-images) which contain the necessary wiring to work within the Kasm Workspaces platform.

For more information about building custom images please review the [**How To Guide**](https://kasmweb.com/docs/latest/how_to/building_images.html)

The Kasm team publishes applications and desktop images for use inside the platform. More information, including source can be found in the [**Default Images List**](https://kasmweb.com/docs/latest/guide/custom_images.html)

## Table of Contents

- [Registry](#registry)
- [Features](#features)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
  - [Manual](#manual)
- [Execution](#execution)
- [Structure](#structure)
- [About](#about)
- [Demo](#demo)

## Registry

![Registry](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/doctorfree/kasm-registry/registry.png)

The [Record Technologies](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry) workspace registry serves as the distribution mechanism for Kasm workspaces generated from [Doctorfree Open Source Projects](https://github.com/doctorfree).

Currently available workspaces in this registry include:

* `AppImage`: Customized Ubuntu 22.04 desktop with [AppImage Launcher](https://github.com/TheAssassin/AppImageLauncher)
* [Asciiville](https://github.com/doctorfree/Asciiville#readme): Ascii art, utilities, games, more
* [Ascii Games](https://github.com/doctorfree/asciigames#readme): Collection of Ascii games
* `CloudStorage`: Utilizes [rclone](https://github.com/rclone/rclone), a command-line program to manage files on cloud storage
* `Deluxe`: Asciiville, Neovim, Spiderfoot, Wing and more all in one workspace
* [LM Studio](https://github.com/lmstudio-ai): Customized Ubuntu 22.04 desktop with `LM Studio`
* [Neovim](https://github.com/doctorfree/nvim-lazyman#readme): Neovim, neovide, lazyman, much more
* [Open-Source Intelligence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_intelligence): Reconnaissance tool, forensics, link analyzer, ...
* [Project Jupyter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Jupyter): Jupyter notebooks
* [Spiderfoot](https://github.com/smicallef/spiderfoot): A reconnaissance tool that automatically queries public data sources to gather intelligence
* [Ubuntu desktops](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu): Customized Ubuntu Focal and Jammy desktops
* [Wing cloud programming language](https://www.winglang.io): Wing programming language, examples, and editors
* `WingPlus`: The Wing workspace with the Neovim hyper-extensible text editor
* More to come ...

## Features

Record Technologies workspaces all include customized desktops with several productivity and development packages preconfigured for ease of use. In addition to the rich feature set provided by the base images upon which these workspaces are built, Record Technologies workspaces provide advanced configuration and integration of many additional components including:

* [Bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat): A `cat(1)` clone with wings
* [Btop](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop): Resource monitor
* [Cheat Sheets](https://github.com/doctorfree/cheat-sheets-plus): Cheat sheets Obsidian vault
  - Integrated with `ranger` and `glow` for terminal/console viewing
* [Fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf): A command-line fuzzy finder
* [Glow](https://github.com/charmbracelet/glow): Markdown previewer
* [Go](https://go.dev): A modern version of the Go programming language is installed
* [Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty): The fast, feature-rich, GPU based terminal emulator
* [Lsd](https://github.com/lsd-rs/lsd): The next generation `ls` command
* [Neofetch](https://github.com/dylanaraps/neofetch): System information tool
* [Node](https://nodejs.org): Node version 20
  * [Nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm): Node version manager
* [Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com): Large number of extra glyphs and icons
* [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md): Markdown based personal knowledge base and note-taking application
* [Ranger](https://github.com/ranger/ranger): A Vim-inspired file manager for the terminal
  - Extensive configuration for the Ranger file executor/opener `rifle`
  - Integration with `Glow`, `AppImage`, `Wing`, and more for execution/opening of selections
* [Vim](https://www.vim.org): Preconfigured `vim` text editor with plugins, keymaps, theme, etc
* [Xfce4](https://www.xfce.org): Customized Xfce desktop environment
* [Zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide): Smart `cd` command
* [Zsh](https://www.zsh.org): Features from `bash`, `ksh`, `tcsh`, and more
  * [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh): Framework for managing the `zsh` configuration
  * [Powerlevel10k](https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k): Theme for `zsh`

The Wing workspaces include Visual Studio Code with the Wing extension; the Neovim workspaces include Neovide and Lazyman - the Neovim Configuration Manager, several workspaces include the [Ranger File Manager](https://github.com/ranger/ranger) with customized launch configurations and the [Btop++ system monitor](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop) with customized configuration and theme.

In most Record Technologies workspaces the [Kitty terminal emulator](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty) is installed along with the `JetBrains Mono` [Nerd Font](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts). Kitty is preconfigured and Kitty sessions are tailored for each use case.

Where appropriate Record Technologies workspaces perform a `postinstall` which installs and configures many additional utilities in the Kasm user's home directory. When used in conjunction with Kasm persistent profiles this feature enables a rich persistent user runtime environment across workspace sessions.

## Deployment

All Record Technologies workspaces are designed for deployment using [Kasm Workspaces](https://kasmweb.com). The Docker images can be deployed directly with Docker but they will not provide persistent user profiles and thus will not be as usable, requiring initialization on every start. The use of Kasm Workspaces for deployment is strongly encouraged.

To deploy using Kasm Workspaces, add the Record Technologies registry to your Kasm deployment by visiting the [Record Technologies workspace registry](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry) and clicking on the `Workspace Registry Link`. This will copy `https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry/` to your clipboard.

Once you have the Workspace Registry Link for Record Technologies, in Kasm as an administrator click on `Workspaces` -> `Registry` -> `Registries`. Click `Add new` and enter the Record Technologies registry link copied above. Click `ADD REGISTRY` and you should now see the Record Technologies workspaces in Kasm.

After adding a 3rd party workspace registry to Kasm, clicking on `Workspaces` -> `Registry` should now show the new registry under `Available Workspaces`. Clicking on `Record Technologies` will filter the available workspaces and display only those workspaces available from Record Technologies.

Click on any of the Record Technologies workspaces and then click `Install` to install that workspace. Once installed go to `Workspaces` -> `Workspaces` and click the right arrow button on the right hand side of the newly installed workspace then click the pencil icon to edit the workspace. Adjust any of the settings you like but most importantly scroll down to the `Persistent Profile Path` and add a path to save changes users make to their workspace. I use the following setting for a persistent profile:

```
/u/kasm_profiles/{image_id}/{user_id}
```

Where the `/u/kasm_profiles/` folder has been created on the Kasm host. Note that this folder can grow quite large depending on how many workspaces are configured to use it and how many users are active. I place this folder along with any volume mappings and the Docker library folders on a large second drive using XFS.

### Manual

Use `docker` to build the provided images. For example, to build the `doctorwhen/kasm:neovim` image for the `Neovim` workspace:

```bash
sudo docker build -t doctorwhen/kasm:neovim -f kasm-neovim.Dockerfile .
```

Convenience scripts exist for some image builds. For example, to build the `doctorwhen/kasm:neovim` image for the `Neovim` workspace using the provided convenience script:

```bash
bin/build-neovim
```

For some image builds it is necessary to use the convenience script as this script modifies some files in the build to add a Github API key if one is present in the environment.

## Execution

While these image are primarily built to run inside the Workspaces platform, they can also be executed manually. Please note that certain functionality, such as audio, uploads, downloads, and microphone pass-through are only available within the Kasm platform.

```
sudo docker run --rm  -it --shm-size=512m -p 6901:6901 -e VNC_PW=password doctorwhen/kasm:neovim
```

The container is now accessible via a browser : `https://<IP>:6901`

- **User** : `kasm_user`
- **Password**: `password`

**NOTE:** Several of the Record Technologies Kasm workspaces perform extensive post-installation configuration. For this reason they are not well suited for use with `docker run ...` since each time they are run in this manner they will perform the time consuming initialization. The recommended use for these images is as Kasm Workspaces streamed containers with a persistent profile configured.

## Structure

The top-level directory of this repository contains the Dockerfiles used to build the Kasm workspace images deployed to the [Record Technologies Kasm Workspace Registry](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry). By convention, these Dockerfiles have a `.Dockerfile` filename suffix.

The subdirectory `kasmtech` contains the Dockerfiles used by the `kasmtech` project from which this repository was forked. By convention, these Dockerfiles have a `dockerfile-kasm` filename prefix.

The subdirectory `dev` contains Dockerfiles in development but not yet deployed to the Record Technologies workspace registry.

The `bin` directory contains convenience scripts used to build and push the workspace images.

The `src` directory contains files, scripts, archives, configuration, and data used by each image build.

## About

Kasm Workspaces is a docker container streaming platform that enables you to deliver browser-based access to desktops, applications, and web services. Kasm uses a modern DevOps approach for programmatic delivery of services via Containerized Desktop Infrastructure (CDI) technology to create on-demand, disposable, docker containers that are accessible via web browser.

The rendering of the graphical-based containers is powered by the open-source project [**KasmVNC**](https://github.com/kasmtech/KasmVNC)

Kasm Workspaces was developed to meet the most demanding secure collaboration requirements that is highly scalable, customizable, and easy to maintain. Most importantly, Kasm provides a solution, rather than a service, so it is infinitely customizable to your unique requirements and includes a developer API so that it can be integrated with, rather than replace, your existing applications and workflows. Kasm can be deployed in the cloud (Public or Private), on-premise (Including Air-Gapped Networks), or in a hybrid configuration.

## Demo

A self-guided on-demand demo is available at [**kasmweb.com**](https://www.kasmweb.com/demo.html)

Commit message:

Add entry for Deluxe Desktop Kasm workspace

kasm/workspaces.md, after:

---
tags:
  - projects
  - kasm
  - workspace
categories:
  - kasm
  - linux
---

![Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/doctorfree/kasm-registry/logo.png)

# Record Technologies Kasm Workspace Images

The [Record Technologies Kasm repository](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry) contains several highly customized desktop and application Kasm Workspaces images. Administrators may leverage these images directly or use them as a starting point for their own custom images. Each of these images is based off one of the [**Workspaces Core Images**](https://github.com/kasmtech/workspaces-core-images) which contain the necessary wiring to work within the Kasm Workspaces platform.

For more information about building custom images please review the [**How To Guide**](https://kasmweb.com/docs/latest/how_to/building_images.html)

The Kasm team publishes applications and desktop images for use inside the platform. More information, including source can be found in the [**Default Images List**](https://kasmweb.com/docs/latest/guide/custom_images.html)

## Table of Contents

- [Registry](#registry)
- [Features](#features)
- [Help](#help)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
  - [Manual](#manual)
- [Execution](#execution)
- [Structure](#structure)
- [About](#about)
- [Demo](#demo)

## Registry

![Registry](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/doctorfree/kasm-registry/registry.png)

The [Record Technologies](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry) workspace registry serves as the distribution mechanism for Kasm workspaces generated from [Doctorfree Open Source Projects](https://github.com/doctorfree).

Currently available workspaces in this registry include:

* `AppImage`: Customized Ubuntu 22.04 desktop with [AppImage Launcher](https://github.com/TheAssassin/AppImageLauncher)
* [Asciiville](https://github.com/doctorfree/Asciiville#readme): Ascii art, utilities, games, more
* [Ascii Games](https://github.com/doctorfree/asciigames#readme): Collection of Ascii games
* `CloudStorage`: Utilizes [rclone](https://github.com/rclone/rclone), a command-line program to manage files on cloud storage
* `Deluxe`: Asciiville, Neovim, Spiderfoot, Wing and more all in one workspace
* [LM Studio](https://github.com/lmstudio-ai): Customized Ubuntu 22.04 desktop with `LM Studio`
* [Neovim](https://github.com/doctorfree/nvim-lazyman#readme): Neovim, neovide, lazyman, much more
* [Open-Source Intelligence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_intelligence): Reconnaissance tool, forensics, link analyzer, ...
* [Project Jupyter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Jupyter): Jupyter notebooks
* [Spiderfoot](https://github.com/smicallef/spiderfoot): A reconnaissance tool that automatically queries public data sources to gather intelligence
* [Ubuntu desktops](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu): Customized Ubuntu Focal and Jammy desktops
* [Wing cloud programming language](https://www.winglang.io): Wing programming language, examples, and editors
* `WingPlus`: The Wing workspace with the Neovim hyper-extensible text editor
* More to come ...

## Features

Record Technologies workspaces all include customized desktops with several productivity and development packages preconfigured for ease of use. In addition to the rich feature set provided by the base images upon which these workspaces are built, Record Technologies workspaces provide advanced configuration and integration of many additional components including:

* [Bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat): A `cat(1)` clone with wings
* [Btop](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop): Resource monitor
* [Cheat Sheets](https://github.com/doctorfree/cheat-sheets-plus): Cheat sheets Obsidian vault
  - Integrated with `ranger` and `glow` for terminal/console viewing
* [Fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf): A command-line fuzzy finder
* [Glow](https://github.com/charmbracelet/glow): Markdown previewer
* [Go](https://go.dev): A modern version of the Go programming language is installed
* [Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty): The fast, feature-rich, GPU based terminal emulator
* [Lsd](https://github.com/lsd-rs/lsd): The next generation `ls` command
* [Neofetch](https://github.com/dylanaraps/neofetch): System information tool
* [Node](https://nodejs.org): Node version 20
  * [Nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm): Node version manager
* [Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com): Large number of extra glyphs and icons
* [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md): Markdown based personal knowledge base and note-taking application
* [Ranger](https://github.com/ranger/ranger): A Vim-inspired file manager for the terminal
  - Extensive configuration for the Ranger file executor/opener `rifle`
  - Integration with `Glow`, `AppImage`, `Wing`, and more for execution/opening of selections
* [Vim](https://www.vim.org): Preconfigured `vim` text editor with plugins, keymaps, theme, etc
* [Xfce4](https://www.xfce.org): Customized Xfce desktop environment
* [Zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide): Smart `cd` command
* [Zsh](https://www.zsh.org): Features from `bash`, `ksh`, `tcsh`, and more
  * [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh): Framework for managing the `zsh` configuration
  * [Powerlevel10k](https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k): Theme for `zsh`

The Wing workspaces include Visual Studio Code with the Wing extension; the Neovim workspaces include Neovide and Lazyman - the Neovim Configuration Manager, several workspaces include the [Ranger File Manager](https://github.com/ranger/ranger) with customized launch configurations and the [Btop++ system monitor](https://github.com/aristocratos/btop) with customized configuration and theme.

In most Record Technologies workspaces the [Kitty terminal emulator](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty) is installed along with the `JetBrains Mono` [Nerd Font](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts). Kitty is preconfigured and Kitty sessions are tailored for each use case.

Where appropriate Record Technologies workspaces perform a `postinstall` which installs and configures many additional utilities in the Kasm user's home directory. When used in conjunction with Kasm persistent profiles this feature enables a rich persistent user runtime environment across workspace sessions.

## Help

Record Technologies Kasm workspaces include a help facility that integrates the `ranger` file manager, the `glow` markdown previewer, and the `Obsidian` notes application. Help documents are provided in an Obsidian vault and can be browsed either directly with Obsidian or via the `ranger` file manager. Selecting a help document in `ranger` and pressing `<Enter>` will open Obsidian with the selected document.

## Deployment

All Record Technologies workspaces are designed for deployment using [Kasm Workspaces](https://kasmweb.com). The Docker images can be deployed directly with Docker but they will not provide persistent user profiles and thus will not be as usable, requiring initialization on every start. The use of Kasm Workspaces for deployment is strongly encouraged.

To deploy using Kasm Workspaces, add the Record Technologies registry to your Kasm deployment by visiting the [Record Technologies workspace registry](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry) and clicking on the `Workspace Registry Link`. This will copy `https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry/` to your clipboard.

Once you have the Workspace Registry Link for Record Technologies, in Kasm as an administrator click on `Workspaces` -> `Registry` -> `Registries`. Click `Add new` and enter the Record Technologies registry link copied above. Click `ADD REGISTRY` and you should now see the Record Technologies workspaces in Kasm.

After adding a 3rd party workspace registry to Kasm, clicking on `Workspaces` -> `Registry` should now show the new registry under `Available Workspaces`. Clicking on `Record Technologies` will filter the available workspaces and display only those workspaces available from Record Technologies.

Click on any of the Record Technologies workspaces and then click `Install` to install that workspace. Once installed go to `Workspaces` -> `Workspaces` and click the right arrow button on the right hand side of the newly installed workspace then click the pencil icon to edit the workspace. Adjust any of the settings you like but most importantly scroll down to the `Persistent Profile Path` and add a path to save changes users make to their workspace. I use the following setting for a persistent profile:

```
/u/kasm_profiles/{image_id}/{user_id}
```

Where the `/u/kasm_profiles/` folder has been created on the Kasm host. Note that this folder can grow quite large depending on how many workspaces are configured to use it and how many users are active. I place this folder along with any volume mappings and the Docker library folders on a large second drive using XFS.

### Manual

Use `docker` to build the provided images. For example, to build the `doctorwhen/kasm:neovim` image for the `Neovim` workspace:

```bash
sudo docker build -t doctorwhen/kasm:neovim -f kasm-neovim.Dockerfile .
```

Convenience scripts exist for some image builds. For example, to build the `doctorwhen/kasm:neovim` image for the `Neovim` workspace using the provided convenience script:

```bash
bin/build-neovim
```

For some image builds it is necessary to use the convenience script as this script modifies some files in the build to add a Github API key if one is present in the environment.

## Execution

While these image are primarily built to run inside the Workspaces platform, they can also be executed manually. Please note that certain functionality, such as audio, uploads, downloads, and microphone pass-through are only available within the Kasm platform.

```
sudo docker run --rm  -it --shm-size=512m -p 6901:6901 -e VNC_PW=password doctorwhen/kasm:neovim
```

The container is now accessible via a browser : `https://<IP>:6901`

- **User** : `kasm_user`
- **Password**: `password`

**NOTE:** Several of the Record Technologies Kasm workspaces perform extensive post-installation configuration. For this reason they are not well suited for use with `docker run ...` since each time they are run in this manner they will perform the time consuming initialization. The recommended use for these images is as Kasm Workspaces streamed containers with a persistent profile configured.

## Structure

The top-level directory of this repository contains the Dockerfiles used to build the Kasm workspace images deployed to the [Record Technologies Kasm Workspace Registry](https://doctorfree.github.io/kasm-registry). By convention, these Dockerfiles have a `.Dockerfile` filename suffix.

The subdirectory `kasmtech` contains the Dockerfiles used by the `kasmtech` project from which this repository was forked. By convention, these Dockerfiles have a `dockerfile-kasm` filename prefix.

The subdirectory `dev` contains Dockerfiles in development but not yet deployed to the Record Technologies workspace registry.

The `bin` directory contains convenience scripts used to build and push the workspace images.

The `src` directory contains files, scripts, archives, configuration, and data used by each image build.

## About

Kasm Workspaces is a docker container streaming platform that enables you to deliver browser-based access to desktops, applications, and web services. Kasm uses a modern DevOps approach for programmatic delivery of services via Containerized Desktop Infrastructure (CDI) technology to create on-demand, disposable, docker containers that are accessible via web browser.

The rendering of the graphical-based containers is powered by the open-source project [**KasmVNC**](https://github.com/kasmtech/KasmVNC)

Kasm Workspaces was developed to meet the most demanding secure collaboration requirements that is highly scalable, customizable, and easy to maintain. Most importantly, Kasm provides a solution, rather than a service, so it is infinitely customizable to your unique requirements and includes a developer API so that it can be integrated with, rather than replace, your existing applications and workflows. Kasm can be deployed in the cloud (Public or Private), on-premise (Including Air-Gapped Networks), or in a hybrid configuration.

## Demo

A self-guided on-demand demo is available at [**kasmweb.com**](https://www.kasmweb.com/demo.html)
