text/obsidian.md, before:

---
tags: 
    - command-line
    - notes
    - knowledge
    - notebook
    - obsidian
    - markdown
    - organize
    - sync
categories:
    - text
    - notes
    - notebook
---

# Obsidian Cheat Sheet and Shortcut Keys 🔮

See the [Obsidian Help](https://help.obsidian.md/Obsidian/Index) website for full documentation on Obsidian usage.

## Word Formatting & Coding Blocks

![](assets/obs1.png)

## Links, Quotes & Tables

![](assets/obs2.png)

---
## Markdown Cheat Sheet 💻

---
  
# Heading 1
 
```# Heading 1 ```

---

## Heading 2

```## Heading 2 ```

-- Spacer  

```-- Spacer```

- Bullet Points

```- Bullet Points```

- [x] Checklist

```- [x] Checklist```

**Bold**

```**Bold**```

*Italic*

```*Italic*```

***Italic Bold***

```***Italic Bold***```

==Highlights==

```==Highlights==```

[Links](markdown-guide/basic-syntax/links.md)

```[Links](markdown-guide/basic-syntax/links.md)```

> Quotes/ Blockquotes

```> Quotes/ Blockquotes```

---

**Line Break**

``` ---  ```

---

- Bullet Points

``` - Bullet  ```

---

- [X] Checklist

``` - [x] list  ```

---

**Bold**

``` **text**  ```

---

*Italic*

```  *text* ```

---

***Italic Bold***

``` ***text***  ```

---

**==Highlights==**

``` ==this text is highlighted==```

---

**```Coding Blocks```**

``` By putting 3 (`) signs before and after the code.  ```

---

> Quotes/ Blockquotes

``` > this is a quote.  ```

---

|               |               |
|---------------|---------------|
| Table Cell A  |  Table Cell B |
| ----          |          ---- |

```
|               |               |
|---------------|---------------|
| Table Cell A  |  Table Cell B |
| ----          |          ---- |
```

---
## Shortcuts ⌨️

### General Shortcuts 🕹️
Shortcut Key		|		Functions
:-----------------:|-----------------:
Ctrl + S|Editor: Saves the file
Ctrl + N| Creates a new note
Ctrl + P| Open command pallete
Ctrl + O | Opens Quick Switcher
Ctrl + Shift + F  | Search in all files
Ctrl + G   | Opens graph view
Ctrl +  Alt + ← | Navigate Back
Ctrl +  Alt + → | Navigate forth
Ctrl + F | Searches current file
Ctrl + E | Toggle edit/preview modes
Ctrl + , | Open Settings
Ctrl + Tab | Next tab
Ctrl + Shift + Tab | Previous tab
Alt + Tab | Next App
Alt + Shift + Tab | Previous App
Win + Tab | Task View
Win + Shift + Tab |  Next Window



### Editing Shortcuts 🕹️
Shortcut Key		|		Functions
:-----------------:|-----------------:
Ctrl + B | Bold Selected Text
Ctrl + I | Italicize Selected Text
Ctrl + K | Insert External Link to Selected Text
Ctrl + ] | Indent
Ctrl + `[` | Unindent
Ctrl + D |Delete current line
Ctrl + V  | Duplicate current line
Ctrl + Click | Open Note in Current Panel via Link	
Ctrl + Shift + Click | Open Note in New Panel via Link

Commit message:

Improve formatting in Obsidian and Pandoc cheat sheets

text/obsidian.md, after:

---
tags: 
    - command-line
    - notes
    - knowledge
    - notebook
    - obsidian
    - markdown
    - organize
    - sync
categories:
    - text
    - notes
    - notebook
---

# Obsidian Cheat Sheet and Shortcut Keys 🔮

See the [Obsidian Help](https://help.obsidian.md/Obsidian/Index) website for full documentation on Obsidian usage.

## Word Formatting & Coding Blocks

![](assets/obs1.png)

## Links, Quotes & Tables

![](assets/obs2.png)

## Markdown Cheat Sheet 💻

See the [Markdown Guide cheat sheet](markdown-guide/cheat-sheet.md) for a more extensive list of Markdown syntax.

# Heading 1
 
```# Heading 1 ```

## Heading 2

```## Heading 2 ```

-- Spacer  

```-- Spacer```

- Bullet Points

```- Bullet Points```

- [x] Checklist

```- [x] Checklist```

**Bold**

```**Bold**```

*Italic*

```*Italic*```

***Italic Bold***

```***Italic Bold***```

==Highlights==

```==this text is highlighted==```

[Links](markdown-guide/basic-syntax/links.md)

```[Links](markdown-guide/basic-syntax/links.md)```

> Quotes/ Blockquotes

```> Quotes/ Blockquotes```

**Line Break**

``` ---  ```

---

- Bullet Points

``` - Bullet  ```

- [X] Checklist

``` - [x] list  ```

**Bold**

``` **text**  ```

*Italic*

```*text*```

***Italic Bold***

```***text***```

### Code Blocks

``` By putting 3 (`) signs before and after the code.  ```

### Blockquotes

> Quotes / Blockquotes

``` > this is a quote.  ```

### Tables

|               |               |
|---------------|---------------|
| Table Cell A  |  Table Cell B |
| ----          |          ---- |

```
|               |               |
|---------------|---------------|
| Table Cell A  |  Table Cell B |
| ----          |          ---- |
```

## Shortcuts ⌨️

### General Shortcuts 🕹️
Shortcut Key		|		Functions
:-----------------:|-----------------:
Ctrl + S|Editor: Saves the file
Ctrl + N| Creates a new note
Ctrl + P| Open command pallete
Ctrl + O | Opens Quick Switcher
Ctrl + Shift + F  | Search in all files
Ctrl + G   | Opens graph view
Ctrl +  Alt + ← | Navigate Back
Ctrl +  Alt + → | Navigate forth
Ctrl + F | Searches current file
Ctrl + E | Toggle edit/preview modes
Ctrl + , | Open Settings
Ctrl + Tab | Next tab
Ctrl + Shift + Tab | Previous tab
Alt + Tab | Next App
Alt + Shift + Tab | Previous App
Win + Tab | Task View
Win + Shift + Tab |  Next Window

### Editing Shortcuts 🕹️
Shortcut Key		|		Functions
:-----------------:|-----------------:
Ctrl + B | Bold Selected Text
Ctrl + I | Italicize Selected Text
Ctrl + K | Insert External Link to Selected Text
Ctrl + ] | Indent
Ctrl + `[` | Unindent
Ctrl + D |Delete current line
Ctrl + V  | Duplicate current line
Ctrl + Click | Open Note in Current Panel via Link	
Ctrl + Shift + Click | Open Note in New Panel via Link
